# Why k0rdent?

With the increasing complexity of modern systems, it has become more and more necessary to provide a way for administrators to manage that complexity while still providing the means for developers to get their jobs done as efficiently as possible.  Enter platforms. These frameworks or environments provide the foundation and tools for developing, deploying, and managing applications, services, or systems, enabling users to focus on their specific tasks or goals while abstracting away the underlying complexities.

As the need for platform engineering, the practice of designing, building, and maintaining these platforms, becomes evident, so do some of the challenges of creating a truly functional platform engineering environment. Assembling, integrating, deploying, and managing Kubernetes clusters is straightforward in theory, but where companies may have once had a single multi-purpose platform, the current trend is to implement many more purpose-dedicated, simpler platforms. While this makes managing each platform easier, you’re left with a sum that’s more than its parts, both in capability and complexity. Once you add in multiple clouds, differing infrastructures, and the need to prepare those infrastructures to host workloads, platform engineering moves from being a task on an administrator’s plate to being an entire discipline.

The solution must be answerable to real world needs. This moves beyond simple resilience and availability to awareness of security and compliance requirements, including access management and sharing. Platform engineers need to be able to compose platforms–for example, Kubernetes, beach-head services such as CI/CD, and any other dependencies workloads require–in simple, repeatable ways. They also need to be able to safely and flexibly share access and artifacts with platform leads and other platform 'consumers/users.' On top of that, platforms must enable visibility into both the infrastructure and applications, including both performance and cost monitoring and ensuring platform integrity with state monitoring and continuous reconciliation, all while simplifying platform operations for Day 2 and beyond.

All of these functionalities are available in open source. Kubernetes is the most obvious substrate, of course, providing tools for not only container orchestration, but also custom operators. Fortunately, there are optimized distros of Kubernetes such as k0s, and Kubernetes itself can be orchestrated using the Kubernetes Cluster API (CAPI), which can both manage clouds and infrastructure and assemble, create and lifecycle manage clusters on those infrastructures. Add open source tools such as Helm and other package managers to help manage deployment, upgrade, and removal of applications, and you have a complete platform engineering solution.

Of course, getting all of the relevant pieces to work together–particularly over multiple infrastructures–isn’t simple or straightforward. That’s why you need k0rdent. k0rdent puts all of these pieces together so you don’t have to.
